[관계대명사의 뜻]
관계대명사는 부사이고, 관계대명사절은 앞에 있는 명사를 꾸며주는 형용사절

[관계대명사의 탄생]
Arty is boyfriend of Banana. + I met Arty yesterday.
-> I met Arty who is boyfriend of Banana yesterday.

Arty is boyfriend of Banana. + I met Arty yesterday.
-> Arty, who I met yesterday, is boyfriend of Banana.

[관계대명사절의 형태와 특징]
My spiritual animal is the tiger. A tiger is very independent.
-> My spiritual animal is the tiger, which is very independent.

My birthday is the 26th of March. My birthday will be soon.
-> My birthday, which will be soon, is the 26th of March.

Love is very powerful. He taught me love.
-> Love, whick he taught me, is very powerful.

I want to stay with Arty. I have faith in Arty.
-> I want to stay with Arty in whom I have faith.

I had a great time with the Youtuber. The Youtuber's channel has more than 300k subscribers.
-> I had a great time with the Youtuber whose channel has more than 300k subscribers.

I've been in love with a girl. I admire her brown eyes.
-> I've been in love with a girl, whose brown eyes I admire.

[관계대명사의 종류]
1. who/whom
*whom은 잘 안쓴다.

Those who have done the best will get a prize.
I wasn't the one who wanted to come in the first place!
My dog, who was everthing to me, just passed away.
Arty is the one whom you should talk to.

2. whose
I know a musician whose songs are famous all over the world.
I buy my eggs from a farmer whose chickens live in his backyard withoyt a fence.
I loved my brother, whose death I've never been able to accpet.

3. that
He threw he best party thath I've ever been to!
Going out with him was the worst expreience that I've ever had.
She was the first black woman that becaome a lawyer in the states.

This is the only chance that I have.
He booked the very restaurant that we had our first kiss.
The last two years that I spen with you were the most memorable in my life.

Don't trust anything that she told you.
He ate everything that was et out for him.

My dog and my boyfriend that I love the most make me laugh every day.
I took care of the child and his little cat that messed up my room.

*전치사와 콤마 뒤에는 쓰지않는다.

4. what
Tell me what you know!
I am what I am.
That's what I am saying.
You did what you could.
I am afraid of what you could do to me

5. which
I bought the book which you recommended for me to read.
The cafe which is right in front of our schiil is hiring part-timers.

She is smart, which I wish I was, and beautiful.
I wanted to study abroad, which was impossible.
You keep saying that you are ugly, which is not true!
She said that she graduated from Harvard, which I don't trust.
Arty came back to Korea, which mde everyone happy!

[관계대명사의 용법]
1. 한정적 용법
Earwax which can stop germs and dust takes a vital role.
The author who wrote this book feels very proud.
He painted a beautiful picture which seemed expensive.

2. 계속적 용법
Jason appeared healthy, which surprised Lauren.
The meat was well cooked and tender, which was perfect.
He is very generous, which I am not.
I had promised to quit smoking, which took me 3 years.
My favorite Youtuber, who is also my role model, is coming to Busan.

4. 복합관계대명사
Whoever said that shoyld be responsible for it!
The chef will cook for you whichever you order.
I will do whatever it takes to save your life.