[분사구문의 뜻]
3회에 걸쳐 단어가 생략된다는 뜻
접속사가 붙어 있는 문장을 종속절, 접속사 없이 쓰는 문장을 주절
종속절은 부사절로, 문장에 부가적인 의미를 더하는 역할
분사구는 이 종속절에서 접속사, 주어, 시제 등의 문법요소를 생략하고 축약해 분사를 이용한 구로 만드는 것

[분사구문의 탄생]
When I eat lunch, I always watch Netflix.
1. 접속사 생략
I eat lunch, I always watch Netflix.
2. 주어 생략
Eat lunch, I always watch Netflix.
3. 시제 체크
Eating lunch, I always watch Netflix.

I can relax now because I know that she got home safely.
-> I can relax now, knowing that she got home safely.

My computer, making static sound, broke down.

[분사구문의 위치]
1. 문두: V-ing, S + V
Crying hard, James hugged his mother for the last time.
2. 문중: S, V-ing, V
James, crying hard, hugged his mother for the last time.
3. 문미: S + V, V-ing
James hugged his mother for the last time, crying hard.

[접속사별 분사구문]
1. 시간접속사
when, while, as, after, before

When I was studying, I almost fell asleep.
1. 접속사 생략
I was studying, I almost fell asleep.
2. 주어 생략
was studying, I almost fell asleep.
3. 시제체크
Studying, I almost fell asleep.
*Being은 생략가능

As I closed the door, I realized that our relationship wouldn't be the same anymore.
1. 접속사 생략
I closed the door, I realized that our relationship wouldn't be the same anymore.
2. 주어 생략
Closed the door, I realized that our relationship wouldn't be the same anymore.
3. 시제체크
Closing the door, I realized that our relationship wouldn't be the same anymore.

2. 부대상황접속사
and, as, while

You never clean up the kitchen table while you are cooking the food.
1. 접속사 생략
You never clean up the kitchen table you are cooking the food.
2. 주어 생략
You never clean up the kitchen table are cooking the food.
3. 시제 체크
You never clean up the kitchen table, cooking the food.

3. 이유접속사
because, since, as

He couldn't join us, shince he was ill.
-> He couldn't join us, being illing.
*Being은 보통 생략하지만 형용사만 남아있으면 어색하므로 생략하지 않았다.

Because I live in a suburb, I commute to the city by subway.
-> Living in a suburb, I commute to the city by subway.

4. 양보접속사
though, even though, although, even if

Even though he is a doctor, he doesn't sound smart at all.
-> Being a doctor, he doesn't sound smart at all.

5. 조건접속사
if

If you put yourself in their shoes, you will understand them.
-> Putting yourself in their shoes, you will understand them.
*현재형과 미래형은 같은 시제로 봄

[PP 분사구문]
When I was born a low birth-weight baby, I was expected to live only a few days.
-> Born a low birth-weight baby, I was expected to live only a few days.

Because he was always scolded by his teacher, he didn't like going to school.
-> Always scolded by his teacher, he didn't like going to school.

[예외적인 분사구문]
1. 접속사를 생략하지 않는 경우
의미를 정확하게 전달하고 싶을 경우 접속사를 생략하지 않는다.

2. 주절과 종속절의 주어가 다른 경우
As there is food left in the refrigerator, we can survice.
-> With food left in the refrigerator, we can survice.
*There being은 어감이 좋지 않아 with로 수정

He was washing the dishes as the television blared in the background.
-> He was wahsing the dishes with the television blaring in the background.

If we speak frankly, he is a great manager.
-> Speaking frankly, he is a great manager.

3. 동사의 시제가 다를 경우
having PP 사용

I am free tonight since I finished my homework yesterday.
-> I am free tonight, having finished my homework yesterday.

Even though I was born into riches, I now find myself in poverty.
-> Born into riches, I now find myself in poverty.
*having been 또한 생략 가능

[Test]
I had fun because I made sentences in English in my head and spoke in English.
-> I had fun making sentences in English in my head and speaking in English.

Even though we had a short conversation, we enjoyed the time together!
-> Even though Having a short conversation, we enjoyed the time together!

We watched a movie and drank wine together.
-> We watched a movie while dranking wine together.

When I spoke English, I felt very nervous.
-> I felt very nervous speaking English.

I will be more confident in the future when I meet new friends who are coming from other countries.
-> I will be more confident in the future meeting new friends who are coming from other countries.