[모르는 상황에 대한 가정]
1. 현재, 미래 사실
If he doesn't come, I will be very upset.
If we succeed, I will treat you all.
If you have ever seen Parasite, you will get into Korean movies.
I fyou are making Dalgona Coffee, don't forget to put cold milk in at the end.
If he is cheating on you, it must have started a long time ago.

2. 과거
If he truly loved me, we might have married.
If he passe the exam, he must be partying.

3. 가능성이 희박한 일
- 가능성이 적거나 일어나지 않았으면 하는 일
If I should fail this exam, my mom will scold me badly.
If the weird man should contact you again, call the police straight away!

- 일어날 확률이 거의 없는 일
If I were to die tomorrow, who would take care of my children?
If he were to know you got married, there would be nothing he could do.

[아는 사실에 반대되는 상황의 가정]
1. 현재 사실에 반대되는 가정
If I had money, I wouldn't live like this.
If I could speak English, I could date foreigners.
If it were not raining, we could go for a walk.
If I were a millionaire, I would buy you expensive gifts.

2. 과거 사실에 반대되는 가정 -> 과거 사실에 대한 반대 결과를 가정
If you had not lied to me, we could have stayed happy together.
If the Korean War hadn't happened, I could have met my grandfather.
If I had spoken French, I would have gone to a university in France.

3. 과거 사실에 반대되는 가정 -> 현재 사실에 대한 반대 결과를 가정
If I had not married you, I could be much happier.
If I had listened to my mom when I was a kid and studied hard, I would live like the rich and famous.

[if를 생략한 가정법]
If I had not married you, I could be much happier.
-> Had I not married you, I could be much happier.

If I had listened to my mom when I was a kid and studied hard, I would live like the rich and famous.
-> Had I listened to my mom when I was a kid and studied hard, I would live like the rich and famous.

If I should fail this exam, my mom will scold me badly.
-> Should I fail this exam, my mom will scold me badly.

If the weird man should contact you again, call the police straight away!
-> Should the weird man contact you again, call the police straight away!

If it were not raining, we could go for a walk.
-> Were it not raining, we could go for a walk.

If I were a millionaire, I would buy you expensive gifts.
-> Were I a millionaire, I would buy you expensive gifts.

[if의 기타 가정법]
1. what if: 만약에 ~했으면 어쩔뻔했어!, ~하면 어떡해!
What if I didn't take you home?
What if the supermarket is closed already?

2. as if: 마치 ~인듯이
I want to eat as if there's no tomorrow.
He felt as if he had never loved her.
She behaves as if nothing had happened.
She looked at me as if to ask for help.

3. if it were not for: (실제로 있지만) ~가 없다면
If it were not for injustice, men would not know justice.
If it were not for Netfilx, I wouldn't survive the long period of self-quarantine.

4. if it had not been for: (실제로는 있었지만) ~가 없었다면
If it hadn't been for him, I wouldn't be where I am today.
If it hadn't been for love, I wouldn't have caught the train to Seoul.

[if가 없는 가정법]
1. wish: ~라면 얼마나 좋을까?, ~였다면 얼마나 좋았을까?
I wish I had a boyfriend.
I wish you were here.
I wish I had stuided English earlier.
She wishes she had not told him her problems.

2. S + 조동사 + V + 전명구
It could be even better with wine.
I would feel better after taking a nap.
Without your support, I couldn't have been here.

3. otherwise: 그렇지 않으면 ~ 할 것이다.
She doesn't understand me; otherwise, she wouldn't say that.
I ran away; otherwise, he would be killed me.