[원급비교]
1. as ~ as
I am as rich as he (is).
*be동사는 생략가능
She looks as happy with me as with him.
She is as beautiful as she was.
*be동사를 지우면 과거의 의미가 생략되기 때문에 지우지 않는다.

2. not as ~ as
I didn't like mathematics as much as English.
He is not as dumb as he looks.

3. 배수사 as ~ as
Arty sleeps twice as long as I do.
I am three times as smart as he.

4. 원급비교 관용구
- as long as: ~만큼 오래, ~하는 한
I've been here as long as you.
As long as you are happy, everything is fine.

- as well as: ~만큼 잘, ~뿐만 아니라
He drives as well as his brother.
I have two computers as well as a cellphone.

- as much as: ~만큼 많이
I eat as much as Arty.

- as soon as: ~만큼 빠르게, ~하자마자
I washed the dishes as soon as I finished dinner.

[비교급비교]
My boss is nicer than yours.
Students are busier than teachers in Korea.
Seoul is prettier in the night than in the morning.

Studying abroad is more difficult than I expected.
The truth is more important than the facts.
Smartphones are far more convenient than telephone landlines.

Coronavirus is more contagious than MERS.
The damage of Coronavirus seems more serious in America than in Korea.
I feel more comfortable with my dog than with friends.

Issuing certificates in Koreac is so much more complicated than it needs to be.
Youtube videos are far more interesting than entertainment shows on TV.

Better safe than sorry!
The fear of death is worse than death itself.

Don't act superior to other people.
He is four years my senior.

- the 비교급, the 비교급: 더 ~할수록 더 ~하다.
The more you get, the more you want.
The earlier the better.

- 비교급 and 비교급: 점점 더 ~하다.
As you get older, you will be busier and busier, and time goes by faster and faster,

- none the better for: ~한다고 해도 전혀 좋아지지 않는다.
I feel none the better for seeing a doctor.

- none the worse for: ~한다고 해도 더 나빠지지 않는다.
I woke up feeling better the next mornin, none the worse for the terrible accident last night.

- a rather than B: B라기보다는 A
She is more like a guru rather than a teacher.

A diamond ring is much more expensive than a gold one.
Busan is hot and humid in summer but it's getting even hotter this summer.

[최상급비교]
1. the -est
For me, the cello is the sexiest instrument.
Buying books would be the smartest choice you can make.

2. the most
The most important thing is to keep yourself occupied to avert depression during quarantine.
She is the most interesting girl I've evet met.
Silence is the most perfect expression of scorn.

3. 예외적인 최상급
He is best known for his movies.
All his family were in a car accident, but he was the one who suffered most.

You seem to be happiest when you eat.
You look the happiest in this picture.

The mountain is highest at this point.
The mountain is the highest in South Korea.

You are my best mate.
My eldest sister is four years older than I.

- a most
I had a most enjoyable evening.
I had a most delightful time.

- 비교급 강조부사
He is the very best cook who appeared on the cooking show.
By far the best proof is experience.